OOPS:
     Object Oriented Programming 
     
     It is  a design model or paradigm which helps the programmer to corelate real world scenerios into 
     the programming world scenerios in the form of object.

     Encapsulation 
     Inheritance
     Polymorphism 
     Abstraction

     States means variable 
     behaviour means method


Encapsulation:
    the binding or wrapping states and  behaviour of an object is known as Encapsulation.

why do we use Encapsulation?
    : To achive data hiding

What is data hiding?
    : The process oof avoiding direct access but providing controlled access is known as data hiding.

How to avoid direct access?
    : By using Private access modifier / Specifier.
    private keyword
    if we make any member  as private  so we cannot use that variable directly in different class. We can only useq directly in same class.

How to provide controlled access?
    : using getter and setter method .

What is the use of getter method?
    : used to get or retrive private method.
what is the sue of setter method?
    : used to set or modify private method.
  



Types of relationships in JAVA:
1: HAS-A relationship
2: IS -A relationship


HAS -A relationship:
    1. Aggregation 
        is a weak HAS-A relationship where the child object is careted outside the parent class and can exist independantly.
    2. Composition
        is a strong  HAS-A relationship where the parent class creates and owns the child object , and the child cannot exist independantly.



Is- A relationship:    Inheritance:
     child class inherits properties form parent class and we ca achive with the help of extends keyword and implements keywords.

Can we inherit static members?
    yes using super() callling statement .


Super() : It is constructor callling statement it is used to call call constructor of the super class.
          It must be the first statement inside any constructor.
          If programmer has not written this calling statement then by default compiler will add no arguments super calling statement.
          We cannot use  this()  and super() in same constructor 
          We can use only one supercalling statement in one constructor. 





Types of Inheritance:
    1.Single Level: One subclass is having only one superclass is known as Single Level inheritance



    2.Multi-Level : One subclass is having more than one suoerclass at different Level is knoown as Multi Level inheritance
    
    3.Hirerarchical: One Super clas is having more than one supercalss at same level is known as hirerarchical inheritance.
    
    4.Multiple : one subclas is having more than one superclas at the sme level is known as multiple inheritance.    
                in java we cannot achive multiple inheritance because of diamond problem.
                to acive multiple inheritance in java we have to use interface.
    5. hybrid : combination of any two 



Upcasting;
    -the conversion of subclass type into superclass type is know as upcasting 

    -in upcasting we create object of subclass and store it inside superclass reference variable.
    -with the help of upcasting we can access only the members of superclass.
Downcasting:
    -the conversion of superclass type into subclasstype is known as downcasting .
    -with the help of downcasting we can access  members of  subclass and superclass.

Note : If we try to perform downcasting without upcasting it will throw class cast exception.





polymorphism:
    An ability of an object to exhibit more than one form is known as polymorphism
    one name but different behaviours .


    types of polymorphism:
    1. compile time polymorphism 
        The binding happens during copile time is known as copile tiem polymorphism.
        it is also known as static binding.
        We can achive compile time polymorphism using 
            method overloading
            constructor overloading
            variable shadowing
                A sublass and super class is static variable or non static variable with smae is known as variable shadowing.
                which variable to be called is decided during compile time based on reference variable type.
            method shadowing
                A subclass and super class is having static method with ssame name , same acess modifier, same return type and 
                same formal arguments.
                which method to be called is decided during copile time based on  reference variable type.


    2. runtime polymorphism
        the binding  happens during runtime is known as runtime polymorphism.
        it is also known as dynamic binding
        we can achive runtime polymorphism using method overriding.

        A subclass and super class is having non  static method with ssame name , same acess modifier, same return type and 
                same formal arguments.

    which method to be called is decided during run time based on object creation.

Annotation: extra validation provided by programmer.
@override 
: which means method is override from superclass





interface:
    interface is a keyword.
    It is used to create non primitive datatype.
    it is used to achive 100 % Abstraction.
    it is uded in multiple inheritance.

    to inherit interface into class we use implements keywords.

    with the help of implements keyword we can inherit  more than one innterface.

    we cannot create objects of interface.

    in interface we cannot create static initializer block , instance initializer block, constructor

    in interface all the non static methods are already prefised with Abstract and public keyword.
    hence we can achive 100% abstraction using interface.

    in interface all the variables  are already prefixed with the final and static keyword.

    if any variable is prefixed  with the final keyword which means we cannot re initialize that variable 
    static method of interface can only be accesed through static way   


    If we want to inherit one class into  another class , we use the extends keyword.
    If we want to inherit (implement)  an interface into a class, we use the implements keyword.
    If we want to inherit one intrface into another interface , we use the extends keyword.
    If we try to inherit  a class into a interface , it is possible i java.
    